---
---

\"Multiple News Items.\" National Intelligencer, 10 Nov. 1865.
Nineteenth Century U.S. Newspapers,\
link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3017892707/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid\
=d321a188. Accessed 14 July 2021.

IMPORTANT FROM JAMAICA --- Accompanying official despatches received by
the Government from Jamaica is a copy of the Colonial Standard of
October 16, which contains the official report of Brigadier General
Nelson, of her Majesty's service, in command at Morant Bay, detailing,
among other facts, that he was hanging every insurrectionist as fast as
captured. General Nelson also officially reports that her Majesty's
gunboat, Lieutenant Brand, opened fire upon a party of about 800 women
and children, at Morant, and, after exploding three shells from a
32-pounder, succeeded in dispersing them.

RUMORED TROUBLES IN THE COUNTRY ---

We alluded yesterday to the rumors of trouble between the negroes and
the white population of the surrounding country, which have recently
been \[unreadable\] to some extent in this community; and we expressed
the belief that there was no foundation for these reports. We were
informed yesterday, however, that secret meetings are held by negroes
twice a week, in different sections of Princess Anne county, and that
these meetings are guarded by colored men. Our information comes from a
reliable source. We have just learned, also, that the citizens of
Princess Anne are somewhat concerned about these secret assemblages, and
do not feel \[unreadable\] pleasantly with regard to their object.

Now, if secret meetings are held by colored people, and guarded, it is
very reasonable to suppose that the white people cannot sleep as quietly
as if there was no such cause of concern or alarm; and more particularly
as it is stated that the colored men have arms and ammunition, while
very many of the white people have none. We do not make this statement
for the purpose of creating alarm. Even a mere suspicion of trouble
should not always be withheld from the public; and a hint is often
exceedingly valuable in putting on their guard those who may possibly be
in danger.

We deem it not inappropriate to call the attention of military
authorities to the state of affairs to which we have alluded, and
believe that such measures will be taken as may be considered proper
under the circumstances. It may be expedient to place well selected
guards at different positions, or, perhaps far better, to allow the
white people to arm themselves and organize in order to be prepared for
any emergency that may possibly happen.

We do not think that negroes should be allowed to hold secret meetings
and place an armed guard over them. Proceedings of this kind by white
people would not be permitted; and this matter should receive the prompt
attention of those entrusted with the peace and good order of the
community. --- *Norfolk Old Dominion*, Nov 8.
