N. Y. Tribune. \"The Disturbances in Jamaica.\" Liberator, 24 Nov. 1865,
p. 187. Nineteenth\
Century U.S. Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3005897252/NCNP?u\
=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=45a4e5d9. Accessed 18 July 2021.

THE DISTURBANCES IN JAMAICA

Our advices received by the steamer from Jamaica yesterday show that
deplorable as are the excesses which were committed by an infuriated mob
when the outbreak occurred, the affair was not what it has been
represented, viz: a concerted movement amazon the Blacks all over the
island to exterminate the Whites and the Browns, and to make themselves
masters of the country. The outbreak was confined to one single parish
out of the twenty-two parishes into which the island is divided, and did
not extend even over the whole of that district. In fact, it is
described by the Jamaica *Guardian* of the 14th inst., in giving an
account of its incidents, not as a rebellion of the Blacks, but as "Riot
and bloodshed in St. Thomas-in-the-East." It is true that subsequently
to the publication of that account, statements appeared in that paper
and other Kingston journals to the effect that the St.
Thomas-in-the-East outbreak was only part of a widely-ramified plot for
the destruction of the Whites and the colored people by the blacks; but
we have searched our exchange files in vain for any evidence in support
of this averment; and, indeed, we find it stated in them that
tranquility and order prevailed generally throughout those parts of the
island not immediately adjacent to the scene of the disturbances. That
this outbreak is not a negro rebellion got up for the exterminatino of
the whites seems clear, from the fact that the Maroons, who are all
Blacks, have rendered loyal and valuable service in capturing the
insurgents, and defending the person and property of the planters; and
other Blacks, not belonging to that class of people, have done the same.
And, even so far as the particular parish in which the outbreak occurred
is concerned, it seems strange that the Blacks, if intending a massacre
of the other inhabitants, should have gone to work as they did --- that
is, have given what was equivalent to a warning of their intentions,
whereby the authorities were enabled to have a military force on the
spot to suppress the outbreak. From all we can gather, it appears to us
that this outbreak, which was local in its character, arose mainly from
local causes peculiar to the district in which it took place. Fear
always exaggerates danger, and we can make every allowance for those on
the spot, who saw in the deplorable slaughter which resulted from the
fight between the volunteers and the mob, and the subsequent murder of
several planters by an infuriated populace, the first developments of a
conspiracy for the destruction of Whites and Browns; but, taking into
account the peaceful character, loyalty and obedience to the laws, by
which the Blacks of Jamaica have been distinguished ever since their
emancipation, it will require evidence of the most explicit and decisive
character to support the charges brought against them in this matter.
That evidence has not yet appeared; and, without wishing to prejudge the
case, we may say, we do not think it will ever be supplied. Be this as
it may, however, it would seem from the action of the Government in the
matter that apprehension is felt that political influences are at work
to promote disaffection among the black people of Jamaica. A noted
political character, a member of the House of Assembly, charged with
inciting people to rebel, was arrested in the city of Kingston a few
days after the outbreak, and taken to Morant Bay, where he was tried by
Court-Martial, sentenced to be hung, and immediately executed. The
gentleman, Mr. G. W. Gordon, was a large landholder in the island, and
the Jamaica correspondent of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery
Society. Two or three ministers of dissenting churches have met with the
same fate; and Mr. Sidney Levien, the editor of *The County Union*, a
fearless, independent journal, ever ready to plead the cause of justice
and liberty, has been arrested and taken from his home on the north side
of the island to Morant Bay --- a distance of one hundred miles --- to
be handed over to the military authorities. A Dr. Bruce, a white man,
has also been arrested for political causes, and he too has been sent on
to Morant Bay, to appear before a military tribunal. That the St.
Thomas-in-the-East outbreak, beside leading to the execution, by
shooting and hanging, of over 1,000 blacks in less than three weeks from
the commencement of the outbreak, should have necessitated these extreme
measures, would seem to argue that the ruling powers of Jamaica are not
sure that the ground upon which they stand is altogether safe. --- *N.Y.
Tribune*.
