\"The London Times makes the remark that the outcry in England against
the authorities in\
Jamaica \'will cause surprise in the island \'where their alleged
misdeeds have occurred\'.\"\
Boston Daily Advertiser, 19 Dec. 1865. Nineteenth Century U.S.
Newspapers, link.gale\
com/apps/doc/GT3006408219/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid\
=2a700798. Accessed 18 July 2021.

BOSTON DAILY ADVERTISER

The London Times makes the remark that the outcry in England against the
authorities in Jamaica "will cause surprise in the island where their
alleged misdeeds have occurred." The prediction thus made will no doubt
be verified, for while the colonial authorities have gone on shooting
and hanging the blacks indiscriminately, --- "if they run," says an
officer who is engaged in the business, "they are shot for running
away," and, he adds, "the soldiers enjoy it," --- while the authorities
are pursuing this entertainment, the people and the press at home are
discussing the naked question whether murder has not been committed
under the pretence of military necessity, and all England is in a state
of excitement of which the like has not been seen for years. Governor
Eyre is reminded by one influential paper of the famous case of Governor
Wall of Goree, hanged in 1801 for having twenty years before ordered the
flogging of a sergeant in a mutinous regiment, who died in consequence
of the punishment. "We don't want to hunt Governor Eyre to the gallows,"
says the paper which brings up this grim precedent; but, it must be
owned that this talk of the gallows in such a connection is calculated
to excite a certain vertebral tenderness in him who is bidden to
consider the untimely end of Wall.

The case which causes the most excitement, and which stands out
conspicuously among the nameless hundreds, is that of George W. Gordon,
the member of the Colonial Legislature, who was hanged as the leader in
the alleged plot. This man was the son of a planter by a slave; by his
industry in youth he had acquired his freedom, and had obtained a good
education, --- some accounts speak of him as having a university
education, --- and had become a merchant. He purchased the freedom of
his own sisters and educated them in Europe, and secured his father and
his white relatives from the pressures of reverses, --- although
colonial decorum did not permit him to enter their house; and had
finally assisted them to take up their residence in England. He had
married an English woman, and had attained a most respectable position.
As a member of the Legislature there is no doubt that he was an agitator
on behalf of the blacks, although it is scarcely credible that, being of
mixed blood himself and having a white wife, he would have instigated an
insurrection of the blacks against the whites and mulattoes, as is
alleged.

When the outbreak occurred, it appears that Gordon was not on the spot,
but at Kingston, and no evidence has yet been produced to show that he
had any connection with the insurrection, if it is to be so called.
Governor Eyre at once proclaimed martial law over the eastern end of the
island, excepting Kingston, however, and a military court at once began
the summary process of trial and condemnation. The Governor, becoming
satisfied that Gordon was the leader in the affair, caused a warrant to
be issued against him by civil authority; and finding capture
inevitable, as it is said, the latter gave himself up, and was at once
taken on board of a steamer and conveyed to Morant Bay, where the
military court was in session, was brought before it, condemned and
executed. What evidence Governor Eyre has to show to justify this
condemnation, --- the court consisted of two lieutenants in the navy and
an ensign in one of the regiments, --- does not yet appear, while many
circumstances tend to make Gordon's innocence probable. Gordon himself,
in the hour which was allowed between the announcement of his sentence
and its execution, wrote a letter to his wife, --- as affecting a
composition of this sort as it was ever our fortune to read, --- in
which he asserted his entire innocence, and which, with all the
allowances to which protestations under such circumstances are subject,
must be allowed to have no little weight.

But let Gordon have been innocent or guilty, Governor Eyre is called
upon by the English press to answer some grave questions with respect to
this transaction. By what right, it is asked, did the Governor withdraw
Gordon from the civil jurisdiction and send him to a district under
martial law for trial by a military court? And by what authority was a
non-military subject of the crown, not taken in armed resistance, and
not taken in a district under martial law, tried by a military court at
all? Those who sat in the court and those who executed itse sentence,
says the London Solicitor's Journal, "have one and all been guilty of
actual murder," and no small part of the press sustains the view thus
taken by this legal authority. This view of the case, and "the outcry"
upon which it has influence, will no doubt "cause surprise in the
island," as the Times says; but it will prove a serious matter, for all
that. A very deep sense of shame is felt at the indiscriminate massacre
of unresisting people, which was carried on after the last spark of
insurrection had expired. The colonial authorities declare that it was
necessary to stamp out the remains of the affair in such a manner as to
strike terror; the English public, with a little introspection perhaps,
declare that it was all a cowardly panic, and the case of Gordon is that
around which their disgust and indignation can most readily and
conveniently centre. Accordingly it is safe to say that for the
execution of that man Governor Eyre will be called to account in a
manner which will not only surprise the colonists, but perhaps some
readers of the London Times also, as that paper has deliberately
suppressed a large part of the intelligence from Jamaica bearing on the
case to the disadvantage of the colonial authorities.
