---
---

\"The Executions in Morant Bay.\" Cleveland Daily Herald, 4 Jan. 1866.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3005202176/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid\
=bookmark-NCNP&xid=0a671650. Accessed 18 July 2021.

The Executions in Morant Bay.

A letter published in the Manchester (Eng.) *Examiner*, gives the
following account of the manner in which the trials and executions of
the rioters at Morant Bay were conducted:

Our first trip was about thirty miles to Morant Bay, the place where
they first broke out, and burned down the court houses, and murdered all
the inmates. We saw the blackened walls looking sadly down upon the
quiet but beautiful landscape. I went ashore, and found the prisoners
under tents, guarded by soldiers, and waiting to be tried by the
drum-head court martial. Soldiers and volunteers were scouring the
country, and bringing the prisoners by the dozen. Two courts were
sitting and trying the prisoners. Very few words were required --- such
as "Do you know the prisoner?" "Yes." "Where did you see him?" "Amongst
the mob with a stick and bayonet." Death. Others were found with stolen
property --- death. Some foretelling the outbreak and sharpening their
cutlasses --- death; others for entering houses and demanding power ---
death; and so they went on sending them off with a few minutes' trial,
all pinioned and strongly guarded till sunset, when they were marched
out and hanged in dozens together on the place of the late murders. I
went ashore on the 20th October, and saw eighteen of them hanging
together. I will try and give you as near as I can what I saw. At the
back of the court house there was a large space, such as you would see
at the front of a market house or town hall. The soldiers were drawn up
in two rows, with the supposed leader, George William Gordon, standing
in the centre with his arms pinioned; on the left were the prisoners,
all pinioned, and headed by the provost marshal, who held a bundle of
papers in his hand --- the death warrants. In the centre of the ruins of
the court house a long tree was put horizontally, and resting on
tressels. There were twelve ropes hung dangling ready for their victims.
On each side of this were two small archways, and over each hung three
more ropes. When all had been arranged, the general gave the order to
commence; and the provost marshal called over the names one by one,
followed by the dreadful ominous word, "Death." --- His assistant led
each to the fatal rope prisoner and pinioned their hands behind their
backs. They stood on a rough plank, supported on wooden blocks. Two
carts were run under each archway, and three more victims were tied up
there on each side, one of them a fine young woman, who had been found
battering the head of a man after he was dead. The fatal nooses were all
arranged, and silence was called for. About a minute and all the blocks
and carts were drawn out and eighteen distorted corpses hung on the
blackened walls of the building to which only a fortnight before, fire
was set, and all who came out murdered. After the execution, they
commenced flogging others who had been taken, and not been able to give
a good account of themselves. They have hung and killed several
hundreds, and flogged and transported any quantity. I am sick with the
indifference shown to life, and I am happy to say that it is nearly
over, and we have returned to Port Royal again. I have had a good
opportunity of seeing the beautiful island, and I must say I never saw
anything like it before.
