---
---

\"English Opinion of the Jamaica Brutalities.\" Daily Evening Bulletin,
19 Jan. 1866. Nineteenth\
Century U. S. Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3002314518/NCNP?u\
=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=5b4923ff. Accessed 26 July 2021.

English Opinion of the Jamaica Brutalities

The most respectable English journals express themselves in much
stronger language than any we have used in regard to horrible outrages
committed by Governor Eyre and the planters of Jamaica. One journal
says:

The Jamaica news is too painful and too shameful for Englishmen to
recount without bitterness. The slaughter seems to have been stayed on
the 7th \[unreadable\], but the previous 28 days were days of unresisted
carnage, uncontrolled passions and jocose brutality, when negroes who
were to be hanged afterwards were beaten first, and the strokes of the
cat were aggravated by the \[unreadable\] insults of those who applied
it. If any one will read through the special correspondence of the
Jamaica *Standard* from Morant Bay, he will feel that Macaulay's "days
never to be recalled without a blush" have come again. The accounts of
the exploits of the troops are just like the accounts of sportsmen
popping away at pheasants in a preserve, and when, after a month of it,
on the 7th \[unreadable\], the new pit dug at Morant Bay for negro
bodies was \[undreadable\] up without any, the general opinion of the
disappointed English settlers is reported by this Jamaica *Standard*
reporter as a universal verdict of "too soon," in which he himself
heartily concurred.

The London *Daily News* says:

We cannot pollute our columns with more of such appalling details. If
but a thousandth part of such tales as form the staple of the Jamaica
newspapers --- and which are narrated with heartiest applause --- are
true, hell itself has broke loose in that wretched island. But the
demons are not the blacks, who burst into the sudden fury of a single
day, and never afterwards offered the remotest show of resistance. They
are the white men who, for week after week have been holding their feast
of blood; who have by form of law taken fifty lives for each one that
they themselves lost; who have on pretence of a future insurrection made
a whole region barren with extermination, and uninhabitable with the
pestilence of putrifying bodies; who gloat and jest over the tortures
they inflict are they mercifully slay; who flog naked women and
children, and who blaspheme Almighty God with their thanks for His
mercies vouchsafed in delivering their enemies into their hands. It is
no longer human nature that exists in that land; drank with blood and
maddened with cruelty, our soldiers and sailors have become as wild
animals, and have lost every vestige and sentiment of humanity, while
they bandy compliments on their common triumphs over panic-stricken and
fugitive wretches, over \[unreadable\] who has never crossed a sword
with them in fight, nor ever fired a musket-shot in their "glorious
campaign." This awful business must be stopped, if we would not have all
civilizations rise to \[unreadable\] the name of Englishmen.

The London *Times* has even been made ashamed of its advocacy of the
planters, and meanly conceals the prominent facts from its readers. The
*Spectator* thus exposes the contemptible course of the *Times*:

The readers of all newspapers, except the leading journal, have been
pretty completely informed this week of the condition of affairs in
Jamaica, during the month which intervened between the riot at Morant
Bay and the assembling of the Jamaica Legislature on the 7th November.
The *Times*, for the first time in our experience, while giving its
opinion in support of the colonial authorities, has totally suppressed
the only evidence on which any opinion can be formed. While all the
other daily papers were on Wednesday and Thursday full of the most
minute accounts from the special correspondents of the Jamaica
*Standard* and other colonial journals as to the process which went by
the name of "suppression of the rebellion," the readers of the *Times*
had the advantage only of perusing Gov. Eyre's address to the
Legislature of Jamaica, and a few carefully culled extracts, the drift
of which, taken thus alone, was to persuade the English public that,
owing to the excessive moderation of the authorities, "strong" measures
had ceased even too early for the safety of the colony. Even Mr.
Reuter's telegram, reporting and rejoicing in the execution of 2,000
negroes --- more than 100 persons for every loyal man sacrificed in the
riot, more than 50 for every loyal man killed or wounded in it --- was
deliberately excluded from its columns. As the *Times* is still probably
the only daily paper seen by large numbers of the most influential
people in the country, it becomes needful even for a weekly journal to
give more attention to the details of the last news from Jamaica than
would be usually necessary.
