\"The Jamaica Massacre.\" New Hampshire Statesman, 27 Apr. 1866.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3016218388/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid\
=bookmark-NCNP&xid=644eaa78. Accessed 26 July 2021.

THE JAMAICA MASSACRE. The British Island of Jamaica is but a few miles
South of Cuba --- an easy six days' sail to the United States, but our
accounts thence reach us by way of England. Through that channel
information is coming in regarding the investigation of the horrible
event there last winter, which resulted in the outright butchery, in
cold blood, of hundreds of the colored inhabitants, men, women and
children, against most of whom nothing but suspicion rested.

The procedures of the Blacks at Morant Bay and an adjacent small portion
of the island, are another proof that it is not safe to oppress even a
degraded and apparently powerless race. There are upon the island of
Jamaica some 300,000 blacks to less than 25,000 whites; but with this
vast preponderance of the colored race, the whites were never disturbed
or put in peril. But the blacks, although free, are forced to exist in
extreme destitution; the pittance they receive as agricultural laborers
being utterly inadequate for their most frugal support. Their condition
has been more abject than that of those recently in slavery here, and
when their wrongs resulted in a riot, they were butchered by British
soldiery --- the innocent treated as if guilty, and sent to instant
death. The Colonial authorities seem to have gone upon the presumption
that a local disturbance was an insurrection throughout the island.

But the probability is that the wicked authorities of Jamaica will
escape severe punishment. It will probably be made out that Gov. Eyre
acted under the delusion of supposing an organized insurrection had been
planned, and that the salvation of the whites depended upon the most
vigorous and decisive action. And it was both. The blacks were hunted
like wild beasts. They were shot in the woods, cut down in the highways,
bludgeoned in their own mean hovels --- fathers, mothers and helpless
children, --- and others hanged by trees. Every man who could not give a
satisfactory account of himself, was shot down as hunters kill wild
boars in the forests of Europe. The Manchester (Eng.) Times, commenting
upon the news from Jamaica regarding the investigation of the massacre,
exclaims: "Would that the whole of the transactions could be blotted out
of the book of remembrance! Would that it could be wiped from British
history! It is vain, however, to wish for so much, but we cannot cease
to hope that full justice will be done to all who took part in these
abominable transactions.
