---
---

\"The Negro Outbreak in Jamaica.\" Daily Evening Bulletin, 21 May 1866.
Nineteenth Century\
U.S. Newspapers,
link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3002320006/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid\
=bookmark-NCNP&xid=bff7d62b. Accessed 26 July 2021.

The Negro Outbreak in Jamaica.

Our latest advices from Jamaica, received by telegraph, are to the
effect that Sir Henry Stork is to be the future Governor of that Island.
In conjunction with Russell Gurney and Mr. Maule, (we believe, who holds
the important judicial office of Recorder of London,) Sir Henry was sent
out from England to thoroughly investigate the causes that led to the
terrible outbreak among the negroes some months since; and also to
inquire into the manner the insurgents or rebels were treated by the
military during its progress. The first intelligence received was such
as to cause a doubt as to its correctness. The indiscriminate slaughter
of the blacks under circumstances of unusual ferocity was reported. It
was stated also that the soldiers enjoyed the work of shooting and
hanging; and that the usual custom was to lay 50 lashes on the backs of
supposed disloyal negroes by way of caution. The whole town of Morant
Bay was represented as disagreeable by the effluvia arising from the
unburied bodies of blacks; and that the wretches hanged and shot who had
burial were packed together "like sardines." These statements were not
much exaggerated, for the correspondents of all the leading papers of
Great Britain, who were eye-witnesses of the scenes described, united in
a cry of execration against the Jamaica Executive, who during the entire
troubles displayed a cruelty and an unrelenting animosity that excited
disgust. The first step taken by the English Government was to remove
Gov. Eyre, who authorized the work of slaughter; the next was to create
a Commission to proceed to the island for the purpose stated above; and
lastly it was, on the suggestion of the colonial office, determined by
the Jamaica Legislature to commit suicide, on the ground that it was
impossible for the island to govern itself any longer without a radical
change in its Constitution, and that Government by the Colonial office
was far better than a system which was representative only in name.
Accordingly Jamaica has become for three years a Crown Colony and is to
be governed in pursuance of Orders in Council. It is believed that
self-government will not be restored to Jamaica during the present
generation, though the Act limits the period, as stated, to three years.

It is difficult to get at the causes that brought about the outbreak.
Some mixed question of religion and politics, connected with jealousy of
whites, had long agitated the minds of the negroes. In religion the
negroes were Baptists, and given to a fervor in their public devotions,
the meaning of which for some time had concerned the whites; in the
Legislature the negroes were extremists, filled with Utopian ideas. Many
were indolent, and did little to improve their own condition or advance
the interests of the island. Two men named Paul Bogle and G. W. Gordon
were the acknowledged leaders of the disaffected; and both men were put
to death. The violence committed by the negroes was attacking a Court
House while the Magistrates were on the bench and killing a number of
white people; and there were indications that the outbreak would spread
unless summarily checked. In defence of the executive it is said that
the people placed in such a position as the whites in Jamaica see things
through the heated atmosphere which imminent danger engenders. It is
easy to imagine the feelings of a man who knows that his race numbers
only 13,000 while more than 400,000 blacks, more or less, fanatical and
barbarous, may be expected every moment to rise against them. The
outbreak at the Court House is taken as a justification for the
following proceedings, which are officially reported by the Commission
sent out from England:

When military tribunals were formally established, the numbers were
properly recorded, and from these accounts it appears that by these
courts 270 persons were sentenced to death and executed, 9 were
sentenced to death and pardoned, 43 were flogged, 60 flogged and
imprisoned, 4 acquitted and released, and 23 imprisoned, thus making a
total of 417. Under Col. Hobbs some 50 or 60 persons were executed, and
Mr. Clifford of the *Times* expressed an opinion that about 70 would be
a liberal estimate of the number shot in the bush, thus bringing up the
total to about 550. It is to be feared, however, that the number
slaughtered in the bush was much larger than that mentioned by this
writer. For instance, Col. Hobbs, in his evidence, speaks of shooting
some 12 or 14 as they were "running up the side of the hill." Three men
of the First West India Regiment made a raid and on their return
reported that they had shot "about 10 \[unreadable\]." Cases like these
are numerous; so that, although Sir Leopold McClintock's estimate of
1,500 was outside the mark, it is doubtful whether Mr. Clifford's of 500
is not nearly as much \[unreadable\]. Cases of individual cruelty were
numerous, and the women appear to have suffered to an equal extent with
the men. Col. Hobbs appears to have exercised a singular ingenuity in
his punishments; thus he ordered in more than one instance that
prisoners, male and female alike, should have their heads shaved. It is
doubtful whether the cruelty or degradation of such a punishment was the
greater; but it is certain that the shame of it will fall most heavy
upon the officer who ordered it. The local authorities --- magistrates
and the like --- appear to have done much of the work of which most
complaint is made, and to hae acted in several cases with a severity
perfectly unjustifiable, even supposing that the rebellion had really
been of a much more serious character than was the case. Thus a
volunteer, Mr. Bunting, burned a house from which a man, his wife and
five children were turned out without being allowed to save anything.
Mr. Codrington appears to have distinguished himself also in brutality.
Thus, a woman who went to a shop during martial law, was taken out and
flogged by his orders and received a mug of brine upon her wounds after
the punishment. Directly after she was flogged a second time, apparently
for no particular reason except that she had said "Good morning, Massa
\[unreadable\]," to this "worthy magistrate."

The Col. Hobbs referred to in the preceding extract is mentioned in our
overland despatches of yesterday as follows: "Col. Hobbs, who was the
commander of the forces sent against the negroes during the late
disturbances in Jamaica, had become insane, and on being put on a
steamer, *en route* home, jumped overboard and was drowned." The future
Government of Jamaica has been definitely settled on a plan that will be
favorable to the negroes, provided they work; and as for the whites,
their safety is now secured beyond any contingency. The Home Government
has yet to decide upon the official conduct of Gov. Eyre; Col. Hobbs has
placed himself beyond its control. The trial and condemnation of Gordon
by court-martial, is a matter that is generally considered without
parallel. The evidence produced against him was entirely insufficient to
hold him in custody for an hour, let alone a warrant for his execution.
But in Gordon's case, as in nearly every dark proceeding during the
outbreak, fear and terror are plended as palliation for the atrocities
committed upon the negroes.
