\"The West India Negro Reblion-Ex-Governor Eyre Held for Trial.\"
National Intelligencer, 23 May\
1868. Nineteenth Century U.S. Newspapers,
link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3017930237/\
NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=46190114. Accessed 26 July 2021.

The West India Negro Rebellion --- Ex-Governor Eyre Held for Trial

A cable despatch, dated the 21st, states that Mr. Edward John Eyre, late
Governor of Jamaica, has been held for trial for acts done on the
island. He is charged with a high crime and misdemeanor, or motion made
in the Court of Queen's Bench, under the colonial governor's act,
eleventh and twelfth of William III and on the forty-second of George
III. The former act provided that if any English colonial governor
should be guilty of oppressing any of his Majesty's subjects or be
guilty of any other crime or offence beyond seas, such oppression,
crime, or offence should be inquired into, heard and determined in the
Court of King's Bench, and punished as if committed in England; and the
\[unreadable\] of George III \[unreadable\] that if any person employed
in the service of the Crown in a civil or military capacity abroad
should be guilty of any crime, misdemeanor, or offence in the execution
or exercise or under color of his office, every such crime or offence
should be prosecuted, heard and determined in the Court of King's Bench
either upon information exhibited by the Attorney General or upon
indictment found in Middlesex, upon which the offender should be
punished as if the offence had been committed in England.

\[unreadable\] Eyre's case the affidavits set forth that on the 13th of
October, 1865, Edward John Eyre, who was then Captain General and
Governor-in-chief of Jamaica, caused to be issued a proclamation of
martial law, (which was set out in terms, and purported to declare that
martial law should prevail, and that the military forces should have the
power of exercising all rights of belligerents against those of the
inhabitants whom they might consider opposed to the Government) and that
immediately after issuing the proclamation he violently, oppressively,
and illegally put a stop to the ordinary course of justice, and
suspended and superseded the ordinary courts of law at Morant Bay, and
other places within the island, and handed over the district to the
military forces then under his command, to be dealt with as an enemy's
country; and that a large number of her Majesty's subjects residing in
the island were tried by certain illegal tribunals composed of naval and
military officers, for various alleged offences against the laws of the
country, and were punished by such tribunals in a cruel, unusual, and
oppressive manner. Then the affidavits charge him with having issued an
illegal and oppressive proclamation, for divers arbitrary and oppressive
acts done under it with his concurrence and sanction; for arresting one
Sidney Levene at Montego Bay, 150 miles from the district over which the
proclamation of martial law extended; for keeping him imprisoned many
weeks after the proclamation had ceased to be in force, until he was
liberated by habeas corpus, no charge having been proffered against him;
for illegally arresting one of the district over which the proclamation
extended one Benjamin Morris, and causing him to be imprisoned and
flogged, without any charge having been proffered against him; for
illegal arrest and imprisonment of one Bruce; for illegal arrest and
imprisonment of one Vinon, and for arrest and imprisonment of one George
William Gordon, and divers other persons, and so forth, ending with the
execution of Gordon.
