---
---

\"The Jamaica Insurrection.\" Milwaukee Daily Sentinel, 22 Nov. 1865.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3002885965/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid\
=bookmark-NCNP&xid=c3784a78. Accessed 26 July 2021.

THE JAMAICA INSURRECTION

How the Rebellion was Crushed by the Authorities

\[Morant Bay (Oct. 30) Cor. Jamaica Standard.\]

As a mark that the rebellion in St. Thomas in the East is crushed out, I
have to mention that the laborers in the river district, as well as
those upon Coley and Hill Head estates, have turned out actively to
work. There can be no doubt that the salutary examples which have been
made of hundreds of these rebellious negroes have driven terror into the
minds of many who are left alive, and forced them to return to their
usual avocations. The estates are being visited for the purpose of
identifying those who have been engaged in the bloody massacre, so that
it is not unlikely that even among those who have turned out to work,
there may be found many of the rebel negroes.

The Court Martial, presided over by Lieutenant and Command Brand,
resumed its sittings on Saturday, at about 3 o'clock. Eleven rebels were
tried and condemned; among them were two women who took considerable
share in the insurrection. They were executed the same evening at about
5:12 o'clock. Several were catted and released. One, a notorious
villain, after receiving one hundred lashes without a murmur, was set at
liberty. On his way he met a man to whom he administered an oath that he
would take up arms and join him against the authorities. He forced this
man to accompany him, and while pursuing their journey onwards, two
loyal subjects appeared. The man whom he had made to swear allegiance to
the rebels, called upon them in the Queen's name to take him into
custody. This was immediately done, and the rebel of one hundred lashes
was safely reconducted here. He is now awaiting his trial. His chance of
escape is little.

Many such characters have been catted and released, and the instance I
have just recorded may be taken as a fair example of the character of
some of these rebels, and of what we might even now receive here at
their hands if we were not protected by the troops. The question is
asked here by men and women, "Is there no place to which these rebels,
who have been \[unreadable\], can be transported?" It is indeed
heart-rending to see the state of alarm in which the peaceable and loyal
subjects of Morant Bay are (especially the respectable ladies) placed by
the very thought that some of these released rebels have it yet in their
power to do secret injury. The authorities here are not to blame. Can
you fill the Kingston Penitentiary to overflowing? Where would you put
eight hundred or a thousand rebels? Then the only alternative is to
\[unreadable\] their backs well and let them go, in the hope that the
severe castigations which they receive (to quote from the Provost
Marshal) "will be a \[unreadable\] to them," and will make them "wiser
and better men."

On Sunday, at about 2 p.m. the Wolverine came off the port, having in
tow the schooner Oracle, reported to have been seized at Port Antonio,
with General Lomotho and others, and a cargo of gun powder on board.
After waiting a short time, she steamed off for Kingston. At about the
same time, the Lily made her appearance off the port, and an American
schooner, apparently bound for the south side of the island, being in
sight she proceeded in that direction, it was thought for the purpose of
overhauling her, a report being current here that a large car3go of arms
and ammunition was expected to have left New York for Kingston during
the present month, in further \[unreadable\] of the mammoth insurrection
that was fixed in Kingston for December 26 I have heard nothing of her
since.

The court martial, presided over by Lieutenant and Commander Brand, met
at 12 o'clock today (Monday). Sixteen of the rebels were condemned to
death, and one to be flogged --- one hundred lashes. Late into the
evening twelve were hanged. Among them is the notorious Cowell, of whom
I wrote in my last dispatch. This fellow pretends to be a Baptist
person, and often officiated in Paul Bogle's chapel at Stony Gut. He was
in an extremely emaciated condition, and could hardly support himself.
He called upon the people to take warning by him.

There is one continual scene of hanging day by day, and it becomes a
matter of consideration whether the burial of so many people, packed as
I heard Blue Jacket say, "like sardines," in the town, is not likely to
produce some serious epidemic here --- already the effluvium of the dead
bodies commences to taint the atmosphere. Last night, particularly
disagreeable effluvia arising from the graves in which those dead bodies
are interred, pervaded the entire town, and it was not without
difficulty that one could avoid getting nauseated. This ought to be
looked after. It is a matter of importance.

TUESDAY, October 31 --- 7:10 o'clock --- We have had a narrow escape of
being buried in the bowels of the earth. Evidently God is pouring out
his displeasure upon the land. We have just been visited by an unusually
severe shock of earthquake. The undulations were from north to south,
and lasted between five and six seconds. The house in which I was shook
like an open leaf, as if at each shake it would be torn from its
foundation. The very gravel on the ground rolled together, as if
clinging to each other for protection. I do not remember having felt so
severe a shock.

It may not be altogether uninteresting to your readers to know that
slightly over one thousand and fifty rebels have been hanged and shot in
the parish of St. Thomas in the East up to date; and it is not at all
unlikely that ere the different courts martials close their sittings,
there will be far over two thousand who will have paid the penalty of
their vile attempt to exterminate the white and colored races of this
island. It is now a quarter to three o'clock, and Henry Bogle, the son
of the late Moses Bogle, together with his mother, Mrs. Moses Bogle,
have just been brought in. The young rebel is so severely wounded that
he had to ride, his feet being placed in hampers. No doubt these two
notorious insurrectionists will meet the same doom that has ushered Paul
Bogle into another world. At six o'clock this morning the fifteen
condemned to death were executed at the usual place. The rebel prisoners
are not kept idle --- their services are turned to account. They are
engaged in cutting down the rank vegetation round and about the town ---
also at Headquarters, the Volunteers' Quarters, (\[unreadable\] Vue,)
the Police Station, and other places where the troops are stationed.
