---
---

\"The Riot in Jamaica.\" Daily Central City Register, 24 Nov. 1865.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3016032449/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid\
=bookmark-NCNP&xid=4cc188ff. Accessed 26 July 2021.

The Riot in Jamaica

The *Diario*, a Santiago journal, gives the following account of the
riots at Jamaica, which, however, must be received with reserve,
considering the Cuban proclivity to exaggerate description, and the
natural desire of that paper to discourage anti-slavery movements:

The revolt commenced in the St. Thomas district, which is now under
martial law. The insurgents are led by a man named Paul Bogle, for whose
capture the government has offered a reward of \$2,000. The steamer
Argent was promptly dispatched to Barbadoes in order to transport troops
to Jamaica. The Spanish war steamers Santa Lucia and Andalusia left
Santiago do Cuba on the night of the 19th. Their arrival under such
critical circumstances will be most opportune, both in order to protect
the Spaniards residing in the island and to shield them from insult, as
well as to give the authorities the assistance usually rendered under
such circumstances to friendly nations.

This is the fourth negro rebellion in the annals of Jamaica. On the 22d
February, 1745, about 900 negroes were detected in a conspiracy to
destroy all the white inhabitants on the island. In 1795 the Maroons, a
community of fugitive slaves who had obtained permission to settle in
the northern part of the island, revolted and were not reduced to
subjection until March 11, 1796. The most alarming outbreak, however,
took place on the 22d of December, 1831, when the island was placed
under martial law, and most stringent measures and numerous executions
followed.

CLIPPINGS

The *Panama Star and Herald* of Oct. 31 gives further particulars of the
insurrection among the blacks of Jamaica gleaned from Jamaica papers.

George W. Gordon of Kingston, the principal mover in the insurrection,
and the leader Paul Bogle, had been caught, and were being tried by
court martial. The Rev. H. Q. Cole and one James Roach, two of the most
prominent instigators had also been arrested, together with most of the
leading men in the movement. The Maroons of the island are true and
loyal, and have done all in their power to save lives and quell the
insurrection. Evidence found upon some of the prisoners shows the
intention of the insurrectionists to spare no white people, but to
slaughter all indiscriminately. The rebels are dealt with in the most
summary way. The capture of the leaders has dispirited them, and many
are surrendering. *The Watchman* office is closed, and those connected
with it have been arrested, on charge of publishing seditious articles.
H. B. M.'s storeship Urgent has been dispatched to Barbadoes for troops.
No apprehensions are felt of much further trouble.
