\"Telegraphic.\" Bangor Daily Whig and Courier, 11 Nov. 1865. Nineteenth
Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3007261048/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=\
bookmark-NCNP&xid=06b4a08a. Accessed 14 July 2021.

WHIG & COURIER TELEGRAPHIC

Despatches to the Evening Times

New York, Nov. 10.

The Tribune's special Washington despatch states that the Jamaica
Standard of the 16th ult., gives the official report of the English
General Nelson at Morant Bay. --- He says every insurrectionist will be
hung as soon as captured.

A British gunboat opened fire on a collection of 800 women and children,
dispersing them with 32 pound shells.

The Navy Department has a despatch from Hilton Head stating that the
gunboat Tioga has arrived with Oliver Martin and Joseph Norton, the only
survivors of the 14 who endeavored to save themselves on a raft from the
wrecked steamer Republic.

The World's special Washington despatch states that Longstreet, Pike,
Extra Billy Smith, and a large number of other pardon seekers, were at
the White House. Longstreet had a private interview with the President.
Smith had his parole extended so he can visit New York.

New York, Nov. 10.

The Panama Star and Herald of Oct. 31, gives further particulars of the
insurrection among the blacks of Jamaica, gleaned from Jamaica papers.
George W. Gordon, the principal mover, and Paul Bogle, the leader, were
being tried by court-martial. Revs. S. H. Cole and Jos. Roach, two of
the most prominent instigators, were also arrested, together with most
of the leading men in the move.

The Maroons of the island are brave and loyal men, and have done all in
their power to save lives and quell the insurrection. The outrages
committed find no parallel. The evidence found upon some of the
prisoners shows the intention of the insurrectionists to spare no white
people but to slaughter all indiscriminately. The rebels are dealt with
in a most summary way. The capture of the leaders has dispirited them
and many are surrendering.
