---
---

\"The Jamaica Rebellion.\" Daily Evening Bulletin, 15 Dec. 1865.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3002308817/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid\
=bookmark-NCNP&xid=05f3263a. Accessed 26 July 2021.

The Jamaica Rebellion.

Horrid Barbarities Committed.

The rebellion of the blacks in Jamaica proves to have been more grave a
wide-spread than was at first reported. The report that it had been
suppressed was premature. At last accounts it was still progressing,
notwithstanding the vigorous measures adopted by the authorities. Below
will be found some details of the uprising, and the wholesale butcheries
of the wretched negroes at the hands of the British:

HOW THE REBELLION BEGAN.

MORANT BAY, October 10, 1865.

A formidable riot has just been reported by a policeman, who escaped to
tell what is going on at Spring Garden and Stony Gut, in this parish. It
arose as follows: On Saturday a riot took place at Morant Bay, and a
prisoner was rescued; the police were beaten and had to fly. Since then
the summons have been issued for the apprehension of the rioters, and
these had to be served by policemen. The first person served was Paul
Bogle, who sounded a whistle as the signal of resistance. Some 200 or
300 men, armed with sticks, assembled, who took the policemen into their
custody, handcuffed them, and made them join the mob, which course they
had to take to save their lives.

His Honor the Custos, who arrived in the parish today, is at this moment
writing to the Governor and to the commanding officers of volunteers in
the other parts of the parish to assemble a force to meet this
formidable mob.

EIGHT HUNDRED BLACKS AGAINST TWENTY WHITE MEN

The rebels numbered about 800, the English were not more than about 45,
including women and children; perhaps 20 white men, deducting the
volunteers killed at the bay. All the arms possessed by the estates were
about half-a-dozen fowling pieces and a couple of revolvers. The few
rifles were at Morant Bay, having been taken by the volunteers, and the
three or four policemen resident at the grove to preserve peace, had
gone to the bay, their only weapons being three old flint muskets with
bayonets. The estates and planters were therefore entirely defenceless.
Thursday afternoon, at 5 o'clock, the excitement of the mob from drink,
and the measure of success they had attained, was terrible --- cries for
vengeance on the white man --- fiendish yells --- shouts of color or
color --- "down with every Buckra." "No white man must be left alive,"
resounded on all sides. The family living at Stokes Hall House heard
these dismal imprecations amidst the \[unreadable\] carried on about 300
yards off. They retraced their steps to Golden Grove and attacked the
overseer's house. The overseer, Mr. Chisholm, whom they longed to kill,
had gone away; all the bookkeepers also had concealed themselves among
the canes and bushes. The rebels smashed and chopped up all the doors,
windows, jealousies and furniture in the place. Having finished with
this place, they went on to "Duckenfield," the overseer, Mr. Sinclair,
who had only been appointed about a month before, and who never had an
opportunity of injuring the rebels in any manner, having effected his
escape towards Manchioneal with his family about 4 o'clock. Here the
destruction was carried on, even a piano being broken open and all the
strings cut to pieces.

MEN CHOPPED TO PIECES

The insatiable rebels afterward turned their steps to the private
residence of Mr. Hire. It was about 12 o'clock. The night was pitchy
dark. As for some grand attack, the shell and horn sounded for some
time. On the hill could be seen the pretty and elegantly furnished
residence, for the lamps were burning at the time. The party at Hire's
consisted of Messrs. T. W. Jackson, \[unreadable\] magistrate for
Portland, Crighton, and young Hire. Sufficient warning had been received
of the intended attack, and Mr. Hirer, becoming \[unreadable\],
suggested the propriety of mounting their horses ready and hand in the
stable and fleeing; but he was overruled by Mr. Jackson, who thought he
could say peace to the raging of the people. Immediately the house is
surrounded and entered by the bars being forced. Mr. Jackson advances to
parley, when he is chopped down, the old gentleman, Crighton, becomes
the next victim, then young Hire, and lastly his father. While young
Hire lies on the ground, he hears the rebels declare they will come in
the morning and finish off any who may still exist; and also the
injunction of the ringleader to be careful and not carry away anything
that might tend to convict them, for, by faith, some of them will
certainly be hanged, Mr. Hire received the most severe wounds, for he
expired early on Friday morning, probably from 2 fractured skulls. The
rebels could not trouble themselves further with the victims beyond
setting fire to a bed into which Mr. Jackson had crept, and in which Dr.
Crody was lying sick, whom they pretended to spare because he was a
medical man, and might prove useful to the blacks. They afterward
emptied the cellars. At the early part of the attack, Mr. Chisholm, who
happened to be in the house, and on the advice of Mr. Hire, exchanged
his customary straw hat for a black silk smoking cap, eluded the notice
of the rebels, rushed out to his horse hitched under a tree and escaped.
The moment he was gone, the rebels guessed who he was, and were sadly
annoyed at not having taken his life.

CRUELTIES OF THE RIOTERS

Mr. Henry Mais was in the parish looking after the roads in the
neighborhood of Oxford and East Prospect. He tells us that on his return
toward Morant Bay, he met several men from time to time with cutlasses
in their hands, and covered with blood. They said nothing to him, and he
proceeded till he reached Retreat Bridge, when two women met him and
implored him not to proceed further, as he would be killed. He took
refuge with fifteen others at Lyssons. The people who were about the
place \[unreadable\] behaved well. The boy of the overseer, Mr. Wallace,
returned from the bay, stating that they seized upon him and attempted
to kill him; but someone interfered, saying, "He could not help it, but
they wanted his master's head, and they would chop up the mule," so the
boy escaped.

It is said that Mr. Price entreated them to spare his life, offering his
own and the Baron's watches, and \[unreadable\] that he had about him,
but they \[unreadable\] him and his hoffer. Mr. Herschel, we hear,
offered \[unreadable\] for his life, but they refused to listen to him,
and Mr. Walton on his knees prayed to be spared, but they persisted in
beating him to death. Mr. Alberga's son, a little boy, was shot in the
thigh. Mr. Stephen Cooke escaped, and came on in the *Wolverine* with
his father, and the rest of his family who have been spared. Mr. Brooks
Cooke was brought ashore in a litter, carried by four sailors, and
escorted by four men of the volunteer artillery under the command of
Capt. \[unreadable\].

FEMALE ROBBERS

During the evening, while the men were engaged in the work of
destruction, the women were occupied in collecting together the goods
found in the stores, tying them in bundles and carrying them on their
heads to their respective abodes. File after file of women might be seen
threading their way along the mountain tracks laden with plunder, until
the shades of night left no token of the presence of these female
robbers, except the loud and discordant shouts of joy at the spoils each
had taken. At the same time, diligent search was made among the cane
pieces and bushes for overseer and book-keepers, but in no instance did
the rebels succeed in discovering any of the fugitives. The hunting was
accompanied by the most horrible yells and blowing of horns; even the
cemetery, a place where the negro treads with dread, was scoured amid
torrents of rain. Fortunately for the fugitives, the night was very
dark, and several were enabled to remove unnoticed into more obscure
hiding places. The slaughter at Mr. Hire's house terminated the first
day's tragedy.

Suddenly, amid an indescribable confusion of voices, the bushes where
the rebels and robbers live are lighted up with innumerable candles and
lamps stolen from the stores and houses; the Babel of tongues increase,
execrations of the whites are distinctly heard, mutual quarreling
succeeds, and finally the unmistakable voices of drunken people sink
into the silence of sleep. The rebels had spread a report that the
Maroons, a remnant of the aborigines of Jamaica, who have generally
preserved their loyalty, formed a grand army and acted as the chief
perpetrators of violence, when, indeed, the latter had nothing to do in
the rebellion.

INCIDENTS

Mr. Alberga's little boy was in great alarm, and begged and entreated to
be put somewhere. The spectacle presented by his wretched father, thus
tearing for a life even dearer to him than his own, was truely
heartrending, and drew the tears of the beholders, notwithstanding the
perils they were under. When the company had retired to the schoolroom,
a volley came through one of the windows, and the Baron holding his
hands up to his breast said: "My friends, I have it now; they have shot
me." An exclamation came from Mr. Georges, into whose leg two bullets
had penetrated. The Rev. Mr. Herschel took off his clerical neck tie and
bound up the wound. Poor little Alberga, clinging to his father's knees,
received a shot in the leg. Previous to this a rush out having been
determined on, as the burning roof was expected to fall in, the Rev. Mr.
Herschel had proposed the offering up of a prayer.

All were engaged in pouring out their petition to the Most High for
mercy, when the \[unreadable\] came crashing through the window and hit
three among them. The roof immediately gave way, and every soul rushed
out. Mr. Alberga with his child in his arms, received the first blows,
and his cries of "save my child," moved the heart of a woman, who took
the little innocent away and conveyed him to his mother. Mr. A. Cook and
Mr. McPherson hid under the flooring, but the glare of the fire betrayed
them, and they were pulled out and butchered.

WHOLESALE EXECUTIONS --- AN EPIDEMIC PROBABLE.

The Court-Martial, presided over by Lieutenant and Commander Brand, met
at 12 o'clock today (Monday). Sixteen of the rebels were condemned to
death, and are to be flogged --- 100 lashes. Late in the evening 12 were
hanged. Among them is the notorious Cowell, of whom I wrote in my last
despatch; this fellow pretends to be a Baptist person, and officiated in
Paul Bogle's chapel at Stony Gut. He was in an extremely emaciated
condition, and could hardly support himself. He called upon the people
to take warning by him.

There is one continual scene of hanging day by day, and it becomes a
matter of consideration whether the burial of so many people (packed, as
I heard a Blue Jacket say, "like sardines,") in the town is not likely
to produce some serious epidemic here. Already the effluvia arising from
the graves in which these dead bodies are interred pervaded the entire
town, and it was not without difficulty that one could avoid getting
nauseated. This ought to be looked after. It is a matter of vital
importance.
