---
---

Gordon, G. W. \"The Jamaica Massacres.\" Cleveland Daily Herald, 16 Dec.
1865. Nineteenth\
Century U.S. Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3005183658/NCNP?u\
=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=dc18cce6. Accessed 26 July 2021.

The Jamaica Massacres.

The summary trial and execution of Hon. G. W. Gordon for alleged
participation in the Jamaica insurrection has caused a thrill of horror
in both hemispheres. The following from a letter written by the
unfortunate man to his wife just previous to his execution, will not
\[unreadable\] lessen the feeling that his sentence was an unjust one:

MY BELOVED WIFE: --- General Nelson has just been kind enough to inform
me that the court martial on Saturday last has ordered me to be hanged,
and that the sentence is to be executed in an hour hence; so that I
shall be gone from this world of sin and sorrow. I regret that my
worldly affairs are so deranged; but now it cannot be helped. I do not
deserve this sentence, for I never advised or took part in any
insurrection. All I ever did was to recommend the people who complained
to seek redress in a legitimate way; and if in this I erred or have been
misrepresented, I do not think I deserve the extreme sentence.

\* \* \* \* \* \*

Say to all friends an affectionate farewell, and that they must not
grieve for me, for I die innocently. Assure Mr. Airy and all others of
the truth of this. Comfort your heart. I certainly little expected this.
You must do the best you can and the Lord will help you, and not be
ashamed of the death your poor husband will have suffered. The judges
seemed against me; and from the rigid manner of the Court I could not
get in all the explanation I intended. The man Anderson made an
unfounded statement, and so did Gordon; but his testimony was different
from the deposition. The judges took the former and erased the latter.
It seemed that I was to be sacrificed.

I know nothing of the man Bogle. I never advised him to the acts who
have brought me to this end. I did not expect that, not being a rebel, I
should have been tried and disposed of in this way, I thought his
Excellency the Governor would have allowed me a fair trial if any charge
of sedition or inflammatory language were farly \[? fairly\]
attributable to me; but I have no power of control; may the Lord be
merciful to him.

Gen. Nelson, who has just come for me, has faithfully promised to let
you have this. May the Lord bless him, and all the soldiers and sailors,
and all men. \* \*

I have only been allowed one hour. I wish more time had been allowed.
And now may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with us all. Your
truly devoted and now nearly dying husband.

G. W. GORDON.
