---
---

\"Negro Insurrection in Jamaica.\" Semi-Weekly Telegraph, 21 Dec. 1865.
Nineteenth

Century U.S. Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3017073190/NCNP?u=

euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=8b283188. Accessed 26 July 2021.

NEGRO INSURRECTION IN JAMAICA.

The following account of the cause and suppression of the later horrible
negro insurrection in Jamaica has been compiled from reliable sources,
and will be interesting to our readers. It appears that for a
considerable time past, the blacks of Jamaica have been dissatisfied
with the system of legislation pursued in the Island, the taxation
imposed being a special cause of discontent.

In the early part of the present year, their apostle of liberty, one
Underhill, Secretary of the Baptist Missionary Society, addressed a
letter to the Hon. Edward Cardwell, Secretary of State for the colonies,
in which the governing classes of the Island were strongly denounced,
the wrongs of the blacks set forth in glowing colors and the appointment
of a committee of enquiry requested. This letter was referred to the
Governor of Jamaica, Edward John Eyre, Esq., and soon found its way into
the newspapers of the colony, creating great excitement among the blacks
throughout the whole island.

The opposition shown to the views of Underhill, increased the discontent
of his party, who got up public meetings in every direction, at which
the wildest talk about oppression and wrongs was indulged in. Underhill
conventions were next formed, and ultimately it is said a secret society
was instituted, called the African Liberation Society, having for its
objects the overthrow of white domination, and the entire extermination
of the white and mulatto races throughout the island.

One of Underhill's most faithful adherents wsa a Mr. G. W. Gordon, a
large landed proprietor, and a member of the lower branch of the
Legislature. This Gordon made it his special business to travel the
country through, strenuously advocating the doctrines of Underhill, thus
intensifying the zeal of his partisans, and although warned by the press
that his labors would result in evil, he continued them until he openly
advocated sedition. Gordon represented in the Assembly, the Parish of
St. Thomas in the East, which abounded with the sect of native Baptists,
and being a member of the same religious body, he had great influence
with them.

As early as 1864, associations had been formed above Parish for
redressing the wrongs of the blacks, their meetings being held at Stony
Gut Chapel, the chief officer of the Association being the officiating
minister, a negro named Paul Bogle, who, in the late revolt, held the
position of Commander-in-chief. The members of the Stony Gut Association
were all sworn to secrecy, and any whose fealty was doubted were put to
death.

December the 24th was the time set for the general outbreak, but the
first demonstration in opposition to the authorities occurred on the 7th
of October, during the sitting of the Court of Petty Sessions at Morant
Bay, in the District of St. Thomas, being in that part of the island
nearest to Hayti.

The business of the Court was interrupted by a loud noise in the
Court-house, whereupon an order was given for the arrest of the party
making the disturbance, but he immediately left, and, being followed by
the police, was arrested. He was instantly rescued by an armed mob, at
the head of which was the Rev. Paul Bogle. The rioters took their
rescued comrade to the Market Square, where they were joined by about
150 more, all armed with bludgeons. The police were severely beaten and
driven off without their prisoners.

On the Monday following, warrants were issued for the arrest of Bogle
and twenty-seven others, for the riot and assault on the Saturday
preceding. Upon the officers reaching Bogle's with the warrants, a horn
was blown, and they were instantly surrounded by about 600 persons,
armed with deadly weapons, who had been concealed in and around Bogle's
premises. Four of the officers were seized, taken into the house, and
threatened with instant death, unless they swore fealty to the insurgent
cause. Fearing the execution of the threat, the officers took the oath,
and the next day were liberated, being informed at the same time, that
on the following day, they, (the insurgents) intended to open the ball
by entering Morant Bay. This information, together with the attempt to
arrest Bogle, was conveyed, by the officers, to Baron Von Ketelhodt, the
Custos or magistrate, at Morant Bay. The Custos immediately sent to Bath
for volunteers, and also an express to the Governor at Spanish Town for
the immediate dispatch of troops, as he feared a rebellion on the
following day.

On the next day, Wednesday 11th, at about 4 p.m., while the vestry were
sitting, they were startled by the sound of drums, and immediately 600
armed insurgents made their appearance in the vicinity of the
Court-house, where there were eighteen volunteers onn guard. The Custos
came out and harangued the mob, entreated them not to come within the
square, and assuming their wrongs they should be redressed. The
insurgents, however, persisted on entering the square, when the Custos
read the riot act. They were now within a few yards of the volunteers,
at whom they discharged a volley of stones. Instantly the command to
fire was given to the volunteers, which was promptly obeyed, and was
followed by a murderous attack from the rebels, when the volunteers were
compelled to seek refuge in the Court-house, already occupied by the
Custos, magistrates, clergy and other gentlemen. The windows of the
building were soon smashed, and a sharp fire was kept up between the
volunteers inside and the rebels out.

At half past five the Court-house was fired, when the inmates put out a
flag of truce. The rioters asked what it meant, and were told that it
meant peace. They replied they wanted war. A second flag of truce
produced no better effect.

The flames had now so far gained the ascendancy that the roof of the
Court-house fell in, compelling the inmates to seek escape from fire, by
braving it, in perhaps a worse form at the hands of a brutal and
bloodthirsty mob. On their appearance outside they were immediately
assailed and with one or two exceptions were cruelly murdered. Some had
fingers disjointed, tongues cut out or were hacked to pieces. The Custos
was shot, then his head was chopped off and stuck on a pole, when some
women split it in two and taking out the blood and brains, mixed them
with strong rum and drank it. Another of the unfortunate victims was
shot, then his throat was cut, and after pounding his head in a fearful
manner, he was stripped naked and nailed to a board by the hands and
feet.

On the two following days similar scenes were enacted in different parts
of the island --- above 100 whites and brown men, women and children
being cruelly murdered and much property destroyed. One feature in the
revolt was somewhat remarkable, the insurgents neither set fire to
estates nor destroyed cattle or stock of any kind, for it was their
dream that after killing off the whites they would all become
proprietors.

On the evening of Friday the 13th a vessel of war arrived with troops,
who were landed on the following morning, and dispatched to the various
points where outrages had been committed. Martial law was soon
proclaimed and the courts-martial formed and their sittings commenced.

An amnesty was offered by the Government to all the insurgents who had
not actually participated in murders or arsons.

On the 17th Gordon, the preacher, was apprehended; on the 21st he was
tried and convicted, and on the 23rd was hung, being the last of
nineteen, all hung at the same time and place.

On the 25th the Commander-in-chief, Paul Bogle, the Captain General, old
Buie and Moses Bogle, the brother of Paul, were all tried, convicted and
executed.

One part of the island, from Long Bay to Manchioneal Bay, a distance of
eight miles, was so strewn with dead bodies, that the road was
impassable.

At Morant Bay, Cape Antonis and other points, the arrests, convictions
and executions were numerous, soon amounting, it is said, to over a
thousand.

This summary method of treating the insurgents had, according to latest
accounts, so nearly quelled the rebellion that order was all but general
throughout the island.
