Gordon, G. W. \"Last Letter of the Jamaica Martyr.\" Liberator, 29 Dec.
1865, p. 208. Nineteenth\
Century U. S. Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3005896055/NCNP?u\
=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=457abc63. Accessed 26 July 2021.

LAST LETTER OF THE JAMAICA MARTYR

Will it be believed that, although Gordon was tried on Saturday, the
finding and the sentence of the court-martial --- composed of two
lieutenants of the navy and an ensign of the 4th West India regiment ---
were not communicated to him until one hour before his execution? Was
this not a refinement of cruelty? What does this condemned conspiratory,
traitor, and rebel do? He calls for pen, ink and paper, and writes the
following manly and Christian letter to his wife:

MY BELOVED WIFE: Gen. Nelson has just been kind enough to inform me that
the court martial on Saturday last has ordered me to be hung, and that
the sentence is to be executed in an hour hence; so that I shall be gone
from this world of sin and sorrow. I regret that my worldly affairs are
so deranged; but now it cannot be helped. I do not deserve this
sentence, for I never advised or took part in any insurrection. All I
ever did was to recommend the people who complained to seek redress in a
legitimate way; and if in this I erred, or have been misrepresented, I
do not think I deserve the extreme sentence. It is, however, the will of
my Heavenly Father that I should thus suffer in obeying His command, to
relieve the poor and needy, and to protect, as far as I was able, the
oppressed. And glory be to His name; and I think Him that I suffer in
such a cause. Glory be to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ; and
I can say it is a great honor thus to suffer, for the servant is not
greater than his Lord. I can now say with Paul, the aged, "The hour of
my departure is at hand, and I am ready to be offered up. I have fought
a good fight, I have kept the faith, and henceforth there is laid up for
me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall
give me." Say to all friends an affectionate farewell, and that they
must not grieve for me, for I die innocently. Assure Mr. Airy and all
others of the truth of this. Comfort your heart. I certainly little
expected this. You must do the best you can and the Lord will help you,
and not be ashamed of the death your poor husband will have suffered.
The judges seemed against me; and from the rigid manner of the Court I
could not get in all the explanation I intended. The man Anderson made
an unfounded statement, and so did Gordon; but his testimony was
different from the deposition. The judges took the former and erased the
latter. It seemed that I was to be sacrificed. I know nothing of the man
Bogle. I never advised him to the acts who have brought me to this end.
Please write to Mr. Chamerovzow, Lord Brougham, and Messrs. Hencknell
and Du Buisson. I did not expect that, not being a rebel, I should have
been tried and disposed of in this way, I thought his Excellency the
Governor would have allowed me a fair trial if any charge of sedition or
inflammatory language were partly \[? fairly\] attributable to me; but I
have no power of control. May the Lord be merciful to him. Gen. Nelson,
who has just come for me, has faithfully promised to let you have this.
May the Lord bless him, and all the soldiers and sailors, and all men.
Say farewell to Mr. Phillips, also to Mr. Licard, Mr. Bell, Mr. Vinon,
and Mr. Henry Dulasse, and many others whom I do not now remember, but
who have been true and faithful to me. As the General has come, I must
close. Remember me to Aunt Eliza in England, and tell her not to be
ashamed of my death. Now, my dearest one, the most beloved and faithful,
the Lord bless, help, preserve, and keep you. A kiss for dear Mamma, who
will be kind to you and Jane. Kiss also Annie and Jane. Say good-bye to
dear Mr. Davison, and all others. I have only been allowed one hour. I
wish more time had been allowed. Farewell also to Mr. Espent, who sent
up my private letter to him. And now may the grace of our Lord Jesus
Christ be with us all.

Your truly devoted and now nearly dying husband,

G. W. GORDON.

The case of this innocent martyr, connected with the recent slaughter of
the blacks in Jamaica, is producing great excitement in England.
