---
---

\"The Jamaica \'Insurrection\'-Report of the Governmental Commission.\"
Daily Evening Bulletin, 2

Aug. 1866, p. 3. Nineteenth Century U.S. Newspapers,
link.gale.com/apps/doc/

GT3002310562/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=8701d567. Accessed\
26 July 2021.

The Jamaica "Insurrection" --- Report of the Governmental Commission.

The report of the Commissioners to inquire into the late disturbances in
the Island of Jamaica, has been presented to Parliament, and, as might
have been expected, is a lengthy document. It appears from the report
that in the suppression of the disturbances, 430 persons were put to
death, 1,000 dwellings were burnt, and 600 persons were flogged. The
"conclusions" arrived at by the Commissioners, and which occupy
something less than a page of the report, are briefly: That the
disturbance was owing to a planned resistance to lawful authority; that
the causes leading to it were manifold, but were principally a desire to
obtain land without rent; want of confidence in the legal tribunals in
disputes affecting the negroes, personal hostility, and a wish on the
part of some blacks for the death or expulsion of the whites; that
although the original design was conceived in the parish of St. Thomas,
it spread with singular rapidity over the Island, so that had more than
a momentary success been obtained by the insurgents, a fearful loss of
life and property wpi;d java attended their suppression; that praise is
due to Gov. Eyre for the skill, promptitude and vigor which he
manifested during the early stages of the insurrection, to the exercise
of which qualities its speedy termination is in a great degree to be
attributed; that the military and naval operations were prompt and
judicious, but that the continuance of martial law was longer than
necessary; that the punishments inflicted were excessive; that the
punishment of death was unnecessarily frequent; that the floggings were
reckless, and at \[unreadable\] positively barbarous; and that the
burning of 1,000 houses was wanton and cruel.

Considerable space is given to the case of Mr. Gordon, and his relations
with Paul Bogle and the other negroes at Stony Gut are \[unreadable\]
investigated. The opinion of the Commission is summed up in the
following passage:

Although, therefore, it appears exceedingly probably that Mr. Gordon, by
his words and writings, produced a material effect on the minds off
Bogle and his followers, and did much to produce that state of
excitement and discontent in different parts of the island which
rendered the spread of the insurrection exceedingly probably, yet we
cannot see, in the evidence which has been adduced, any sufficient proof
either of his complicity in the outbreak at Morant Bay, or of his having
been a party to a conspiracy against the Government. On the assumption
that, if there was in fact a widespread conspiracy, G. W. Gordon must
have been a party to it, the conclusion at which we have arrived in his
case is decisive as to the non-existence of such a conspiracy.

The Commissioners discredit the story that the blacks were going to rise
at a future time, and attach no importance to the reports of drillings
and threatening letters.

Mr. Caldwell, in his despatch, expresses the general concurrence of the
Government with the conclusions at which the Commissioners have arrived.
He reviews the circumstances under which Gov. Eyre maintained the
duration of martial law to its utmost statutory limits, but with the
strongest disposition to make every possible allowance for his
difficulties he expresses his full agreement with the Commissioners,
that by the Governor's act the people were deprived for a longer period
than was necessary of the constitutional securities for their lives and
property; that convictions were procured on insufficient evidence; that
the punishment of death was unnecessarily frequent; that the floggings
were reckless and barbarous, and the burning of houses wanton and cruel.

Of Mr. Gordon's case, Mr. Cardwell says that her Majesty's Government
concurs in the opinion that "the evidence on which he was convicted was
wholly insufficient to establish the charge on which he took his trial."
The proper course would have been to arrest him on considerations of
public safety, and reserve him for trial before a regular tribunal. "But
his trial by court-martial and his execution by virtue of the sentence
of that court, are events which her Majesty's Government cannot but
deplore and condemn."

Mr. Cardwell states that copies of the Commissioner's report, with the
evidence, have been communicated to the War Office and the Admiralty,
who are the proper judges of the conduct of the officers engaged in the
recent transactions.

Sir Henry Storks is to cause careful investigations to be made into the
cases of civilians. "Great offenses ought to be punished," and the
Queen's Government will rely on the Governor for that purpose, and await
his report of what he has done.

The despatch concluded with the following reference to the position of
Mr. Eyre:

It will be evident from what I have already said that her Majesty's
Government, while giving to Mr. Eyre full credit for those portions of
his conduct to which credit is justly due, are compelled, by the result
of your inquiry, to disapprove other portions of that conduct. They do
not feel, therefore, that they should discharge their duty by advising
the Crown to replace Mr. Eyre in his former government; and they cannot
doubt that, by placing the new form of government in new hands they are
taking the course best calculated to allay animosities, to conciliate a
general confidence, and to establish on firm and solid grounds the
future welfare of Jamaica.
