---
---

\"The Negro Insurrection.\" Daily Evening Bulletin, 13 Nov. 1865.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3012787512/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=

bookmark-NCNP&xid=826abbbc. Accessed 14 July 2021.

The Negro Insurrection in Jamaica --- How it Originated --- Its Progress
and Extent.

The Panama *Star and Herald* of October 27th, received by the
*Constitution*, has the following details, which will throw light upon
recent telegrams concerning the insurrection at Jamaica:

By the *Tyne* we have \[unreadable\] of Kingston, Jamaica, papers to the
19th instant, giving the particulars of an insurrection of the blacks in
the parish of St. Thomas in the East and the brutal butchery of nearly
all the leading men in the parish. For some time past a great deal of
disaffection has prevailed among the lower classes of the black
population, on account of the difficulty they found in procuring a
living, the cause being attributed to the ruling powers; but we think it
more justly due to their disinclination to work. This spirit of
disaffection appears to have been fostered by some leading men in the
island, fanatics; by the teachings and writings of some Baptist
Missionaries, prominent amongst them one Dr. Underhill, by a newspaper
known as the *Anti-Slavery Reporter*, and by designing men who had
everything to gain and nothing to lose by inflaming the minds of the
peasants against the property classes. The discontent had lately
manifested itself in secret military organizations, with the design to
follow the example of Haiti, to kill off all the white and mulatto
inhabitants and make themselves masters of all property in the country.

It seems that the demons having fully concocted their plans, determined
to carry them into effect. The first symptoms of an outbreak appeared on
the 7th instant at Morant Bay, when the mob rescued from the police a
man arrested for some crime. Warrants were issued for the parties
engaged in the rescue, but could not be executed owing to the strong
resistance made. The excitement steadily increased until the 11th, when
it reached its climax. On that day the Vestry of the parish met at
Morant Bay, and after transacting the usual business were about to
retire for lunch when a mob of some 400 or 500 men having forcibly
entered the police station and supplied themselves with arms and
ammunition, approached the Court-house, in which the vestrymen were, and
when within a short distance of the building, made a furious attack upon
a small body of volunteers, some eighteen in all, stationed there in
apprehension that some trouble might occur. The volunteers in
self-protection, after the riot act was read, fired upon the mob,
killing and wounding several, but they were soon overpowered and obliged
to retire to the body of the Court-house, and barricade the doors.
Skirmishing was then kept up, with fatal effects on both sides, between
the inmates of the Court-house and the mob, until it was discovered that
the building had been fired and the roof was in flames. The only choice
left to those inside was to be burned to death or face the infuriated
demons. The latter was decided upon by nearly all of the \[unreadable\],
and the most fiendish atrocities imaginable followed. The unfortunate
victims were captured and slaughtered, after which the bodies were
mutilated in every conceivable way, the details of which are too
sickening to be repeated --- disembowelled, decapitated and dismembered,
tongues cut out and eyes destroyed; in many instances the cruelties
being committed whilst the victim was still living. The females, of whom
a large number had joined the mob, performed the most disgusting part of
the work.

The military were immediately called out, a force landed from the
gunboats *Wolverine* and *Onyx*, martial law proclaimed in all of the
county of Surry, excepting Kingston, and the most active and summary
measures taken to quell the disturbance. The principal mover of the
insurrection, George W. Gordon of Kingston, a member of the Legislative
Assembly for the parish of St. Thomas \[unreadable\] East, and the
leader, Paul Bogle, together with a very large number of the
insurrectionists, had been arrested and were being tried by
court-martial. Most of them, it was believed, would meet with the fate
they deserved --- the halter. Already a large number had been executed.
The balance were being closely followed up by the military.

From our exchanges we have not been able to learn the exact number of
casualties, but from private sources we understand some 81 whites were
butchered, and that about 100 blacks had been shot and 80 hung. This may
be exaggerated.

The excitement in Kingston, at latest dates, was intense, and the
wildest rumors prevailed of destruction of property throughout the
disturbed district.
