---
---

\"The Tenderness of John Bull.\" New Haven Palladium, 15 Nov. 1865.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3007827358/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=\
bookmark-NCNP&xid=5b026d6f. Accessed 14 July 2021.

THE TENDERNESS OF JOHN BULL

John Bull is known to be a tender-hearted old creature. He is a jewel of
sensitiveness and sympathy. The cry of a fellow-being in distress,
especially if he be a confederate assassin or murderer, shrinking from
the embrace of a too-tight cravat, is sure to move his bowels of
compassion. He shed maudlin tears over Payne. He was shocked at the
misfortune of Mrs. Surratt, and considered Uncle Sam a brutal monster
--- "to hang a woman!" He will weep bitterly over the execution of Wirz;
and would be distracted if "President Davis," as they affectionately
style him, should be requested to gaze up a rope.

But in Jamaica, this same John Bull forgets his tearful philanthropy,
and his milk of human kindness turns very sour beneath the thunders of a
local insurrection. According to the London *Time*, the British General
Nelson, who commands at Morant Bay upon that island, must be "one of the
most horrid monsters that ever lived" --- as the *Times* called General
Butler.

This Nelson, probably a son of the hero of Trafalgar, calmly states in
his official dispatches that "every insurrectionist is being hung as
soon as captured." Capt. Fisk in his overland trip to Montana last year,
confessed that he poisoned Indians; but even with his prejudice against
the red-skins he did not murder his prisoners. Nelson does not wait for
the brief ceremony of a court-martial. He hangs at sight. Moreover, he
shoots at sight, for he goes on to tell us, with delightful *naivete*,
that he opened fire "from one of Her Majesty's gunboats upon a
collection of eight hundred women and children." Nelson was humane in
this little affair. The gunboat only fired three twenty-two pound shells
among these non-combatants. After they had burst, and probably killed
and wounded a hundred or so, Nelson was delighted with the sight of the
rest of the pugnacious women and children running away. This officer
must be a near relative of the distinguished English humanitarian who
bound the rebellious sepoys to the muzzles of cannon and shot them into
pieces because they wanted to establish a Confederacy. He will probably
be made a Peer of the Realm.
