---
---

\"The Last Rebellion-England at the Confessional.\" Daily Evening
Bulletin, 17 Nov. 1865.\
Nineteenth Century U.S. Newspapers,
link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3012787595/NCNP?u\
=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid=4d527cbb. Accessed 14 July 2021.

The Last Rebellion --- England at the Confessional

The late insurrection in Jamaica appears to have been rather an
insignificant affair after all. Yet, small as its proportions were, it
frightened the British authorities on the Island into the highest of all
fevers of excitement, and betrayed them into a disregard of the solemn
teachings of the London *Times*. What will "the Thunderer" say? The
British authorities in Jamaica are determined to prosecute the
insurrectionists to the utmost extent of the law. They even go so far as
to offer rewards for the capture of some of their ringleaders. Has not
the press of the United States something to say on the subject? Should
not public meetings be called to denounce the outrage upon personal
rights? Are not the insurrectionists mere political offenders? And ought
not some of our leading politicians --- Ben Wood, for instance, or Ed
Ingersol --- publish a protest against the confinement of them in
"loathsome dungeons?"

When we say that the insurrection was rather an insignificant affair, we
mean simply in its proportions. It was confined to a single district,
that of Morant Bay. It broke out on the 10th of October. A man had been
tried at the Morant Bay sessions for some crime, and sentenced to 90
days' imprisonment. As he was on his way to the jail, conducted by the
police, he was rescued by the populace, who gave the police a severe
beating. A despatch announcing the facts was immediately sent to the
Governor, who at once sent orders to the Major-General commanding the
troops of the Island, and the senior Naval officer at the post. The
result was a single company was sent to Morant Bay to restore order.
This still further exasperated the insurgents, who, under the leadership
of one Paul Bogle, proceeded to massacre a few officials and clergymen.
The number thus put to death, so far as their names are given, is nine.
The insurgents pillaged the district, burnt dwellings, and forced landed
proprietors to flee for their lives. An American vessel lying in the
harbor received 100 of the fugitives. As the insurgents gathered in
separate groups on the several estates in the district, they were
attacked by squads of the regular troops and many of them were either
killed or captured.

The most desperate part of the insurrection appears to have been the
attack of the insurgents upon the Court-house. The volunteers, 18 in
number, were drawn up in line before the building. The Custos, the Chief
Magistrate of the city, exhorted the insurrectionists to disperse --- at
all events not to enter the square. They numbered some 600, all armed
with deadly weapons. The Custos told them if they had any grievance to
complain of, to tell it and it should be redressed. He also read the
riot act to them. They received his attempts to pacify with derision.
Advancing towards the volunteers, they hurled a volley of stones. Order
was then given to the volunteers to fire. Several of the rioters were
killed. The volunteers were speedily overpowered and compelled, with the
Custos, magistrates, and some clergymen, to take refuge in the building.
Finding that their enemies had partially escaped them, the rioters
proceeded to demolish the windows and doors. The volunteers exchanged
fire with them from within. At last the court-house was set on fire. The
Custos threw out a flag of truce. The insurgents asked what it meant.
They were told that it meant peace. They replied that they wanted no
peace --- that they wanted war. In the meantime the flames were
spreading over the building. A second flag of truce was unavailingly
hung out. The roof of the building fell in and the Custos and other
gentlemen rushed for the open air. The rioters attacked them in every
direction. Some escaped, but the Custos was among the butchered, and was
horribly mutilated. The fingers of his right hand were cut off \[\...
unreadable... \] is the hand that wrote lies about us to the Queen.

It seems that the cause assigned by the insurgents for the outbreak was
that the Custos and magistrates had been in the habit of writing
falsehoods against them; and they were determined, as they said, to show
the Queen what they could do when they were oppressed.

No less than 70 of the insurgents were executed immediately after their
capture. The report that we have of the affair does not even say whether
or not they were tried. Perhaps it makes no difference either way. Only
what if our local authorities in some of the late rebellious States had
strung up Forrest, Dick, Taylor, Mosby, Jeff Thompson and others
directly after capture! What if our Government should have sanctioned
the wholesale execution of prisoners taken in the late rebellion! Think
of the indignant roar with which the British lion would receive notice
of the execution of Jeff Davis even after full, fair and deliberate
trial and sentence by the Courts! But then these Jamaica fellows are
only "negroes," and the mock philanthropy of England will have just as
little consideration for them as it had for our Southern slaves, when
the United States accepted a civil war rather than assist in riveting
their chains still more securely by giving slavery federal countenance
and support.
