\"By Telegraph.\" North American, 17 Nov. 1865. Nineteenth Century U.S.
Newspapers,\
link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3009319466/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid=bookmark-NCNP&xid\
=cf09e172. Accessed 26 July 2021.

BY TELEGRAPH FOR THE AMERICAN & GAZETTE, FROM JAMAICA

New York, Nov. 16 --- The steamer Montezuma, from Kingston, Jamaica, on
the 6th, arrived at this port this afternoon.

Major General O'Conner had command of the British troops and special
volunteers, by request of Governor Eyre.

An outbreak was threatened at Browntown, arising out of suits of
ejectment by Mr. Ingram against certain parties, and 100 troops have
been ordered there.

Five prisoners had been brought from St. Thomas in the Vale, and arrived
at Kingston. Troops were on the way to Mandeville. Troops had been
landed at Black River and Savannah La Mar, and others were sent to Port
Marl and other parts.

The government had offered an amnesty to the rebels who return to their
loyal allegiance to the Crown, provided they have not been concerned in
any actual murders or cases of arson. Several arrests have been made at
Kingston.

Advices from Morant Bay to the 20th report the execution of seventeen
men and one woman for rebellion. Several more were executed at Port
Antonio, all of whom confessed their guilt and acknowledged the justice
of the sentence.

Later advices from Port Morant to the 22nd report several rebels
condemned to death, including Gordon, the leader, and the complete
crushing of the rebellion. The entire line of the road from Long Bay to
Manchioneal Bay, eight miles, was so strewed with dead bodies as to
render the road impassable.

Two Spanish war steamers arrived on the 21st all from Havana, and were
placed at the disposal of the authorities. The British ship of war
Urgent arrived on the \[unreadable\] from Barbados with troops. The
Galetea, Wolverine and \[unreadable\] arrived on the 29th, and the
Aurora and Cordeila on the 31st. The aurora bore the flag of Commodore
McClintock, who took the command of the squadron, transferring his flag
to the Abonkir.

The Galatea and Wolverine, respectively mounting 20 and 21 guns, had
sailed for Cape Haytien, where the British ship-of-war Bull Dog was
blown up. The Jamaica papers say that the outrage committed by the
rebels against the Haytien government on the flag of England is one that
will insure the leaders such a punishment as they never thought would be
realized.

The U.S. steamer De Soto had arrived with 36 refugees from Cape Haytien.
Among them were the Consuls of Prussia and Hamburg. The De Soto sailed
again carrying some of them back to Cape Haytien, including the Prussian
Consul. Gen. Salnave, the rebel leader, was among the persons killed at
Cape Haytien by the shots of the Bull Dog.

The particulars of the affair at Cape Haytien say that a contract of
some kind was entered into by the captain of the Bull Dog and President
Geffrard, who had three teamers of war under his command, the
understanding being that the Bull Dog should be supported in obtaining
redress for firing into the steamer Jamaica Packet, in a small harbor
near Cape Haytien, by the rebel steam Voldroque. The Bull Dog ordered
the Voldroque to \[unreadable\] when her captain reported the matter to
Salnave, who forcibly removed all the Haytien refugees from the British
consulate. The Bull Dog entered the port of Cape Haytien, closely
followed by the Haytien steamers. She steered towards the Voldroque with
the intention of running her down, but unfortunately grounded. Her guns
were, however, ranged on the Voldroque, which was sunk in three minutes.
She then fired on the shore. The arsenal was blown up, and all the forts
quickly silenced and dismantled. It being impossible to get the Bull Dog
off, she was abandoned and blown up.

A second shock of earthquake was felt in Kingson, Jamaica, on the 31st.

The latest advices state that another ship-of-war, the Lily, had sailed
for Cape Haytien. Rumor says that Gen. Lamothe, one of the leaders of
the rebellion, was to be allowed to depart. Another rumor is that he is
to be handed over to the Haytien government.

Individual arrests of rebels continued in Jamaica to the date of our
latest advices. Among them was Sydney Levien, editor of the County
Union, published at Montego Bay. His office was seized. Troops were
stationed at all points in the island, and the rebellion seemed at an
end.

Further accounts from Jamaica state that disturbances had broken out in
St. Anna's parish, and troops had been sent there. Twelve more rebels
were hanged on the 4th.

The gunboat Fawn was also under orders for Cape Haytien.

Volunteers were ordered out on the \[unreadable\] to suppress the
demonstration near Montego Bay, but it seemed a slight affair.

Kingston still remained under martial law.
