---
---

\"The Jamaica Insurrection.\" Cleveland Daily Herald, 18 Nov. 1865.
Nineteenth Century U.S.\
Newspapers, link.gale.com/apps/doc/GT3005193403/NCNP?u=euge94201&sid\
=bookmark-NCNP&xid=7b8efa2e. Accessed 18 July 2021.

DAILY HERALD

Full details of the recent affair of the British ship Bull Dog at Cape
Haytien, by telegraph last night, show that the commander of the U.S.
ship De Soto was asked to interfere and save the Bull Dog, but prudently
declined.

The Jamaica Insurrection

We have already given an account of the outbreak of the negro
insurrection in Jamaica, and the revolting scenes that followed the
attack on the court-house. From the Panama *Star and Herald* of Oct. 31,
we get the following additional in relation to the causes and the
suppression of the insurrection. That paper says:

For some time past a great deal of disaffection has prevailed among the
lower classes of the black population, on account of the difficulty they
found in procuring a living, the cause being attributed to the ruling
powers; but we think it more justly due to their disinclination to work.
This spirit of disaffection appears to have been fostered by some
leading men in the island, fanatics; by the teachings and writings of
some Baptist Missionaries, prominent amongst them one Dr. Underhill, by
a newspaper known as the *Anti-Slavery Reporter*, and by designing men
who had everything to gain and nothing to lose by inflaming the minds of
the peasants against the property classes. The discontent had lately
manifested itself in secret military organizations, with the design to
follow the example of Haiti, to kill off all the white and mulatto
inhabitants and make themselves masters of all property in the country.

A correspondent of the *Standard*, writing from Morant Bay, October 17,
says "Refugees from all parts of the parish come in from morning to
night --- overseers and bookkeepers, white and colored inhabitants, who
reside in the mountains. It is heartrending to see among these women and
children who have been in the woods and amid mangroves steeped in bogs,
having slept in swamps for nights, passing barefooted and bareheaded
into town, some of whom are on their way to Kingston. Infants in arms,
saved by a few faithful black servants, are among these. All the
mountain residences have been entered and pillaged, and some of them
more or less demolished, and there yet remains in the woods hundreds of
human beings who have not, up to now, been fortunate enough to make
their escape. The evidence found upon some of the prisoners shows that
it was the intention of the insurrectionists, as heretofore stated, *to
spare none of the white or colored people, but to slaughter all
indiscriminately*. Thanks to the energetic and summary measures adopted
by the authorities, they have been baulked in their designs. Of the
number of persons murdered in cold blood no estimate is made in our
exchanges, but we fear it is very much larger than we have heretofore
stated; and of the blacks shot or executed, we believe the statement
made i our last issue is also far below the mark; they were shot down in
all directions by the military or tried by court martial and hung; some,
not very deeply implicated, were let off with a good flogging.

A correspondent of the *Standard*, writing from Morant Bay, October
17th, says that thirty rebels had been hung at that place on the
previous day; a local preacher had that morning been sentenced to three
years in the penitentiary, *and the rebels all over the country were
being killed right and left by the military*. From other localities
reports of a similar nature are published. The most summary measures
were necessary to nip the uprising in its infancy. Most of the leading
men in the move have been secured or disposed of. The capture of the
leaders has dispirited the rebels, and the latest reports say many of
them were coming in and giving themselves up. The *Watchman* office had
been closed, and Vaz, Kelley, Smith and others connected with it
arrested on a charge of publishing seditious articles. The maroons have
acted very bravely, and saved many valuable lives at the different
estates. No apprehension is felt of any further trouble.

The Haytian Difficulty

New York, Nov. 17.

The Jamaica correspondent of the Herald says:

The Captain of the Haytian rebel steamer Valdrogue stated that he told
the Captain of the Bull Dog that he was about to seize the Haytian war
steamer, and in the employ of the Geffrard government, carrying troops
and munitions of war, and that he believed Geffrard and some of his
Cabinet aboard at the time. The Captain of the Bull Dog insisted that
she was a bona fide \[\... unreadable...\] on her legitimate voyage, and
\[\... unreadable...\] Captain permission to search \[unreadable\]. The
Bull Dog followed the Valdrogue and the steamers which accompanied her
to Cape Haytien, and on sending a boat ashore was informed that none of
her boats could land unless by superior force of arms. A heavily armed
launch was sent with orders to land, but failed, being met by a charge
of bayonets from infantry.

The crew were however permitted to take off the British Consul. The Bull
Dog then prepared to fight, and the Consul again landed, but no further
communication was permitted with the shore, except afterwards through
the boats of the U.S. Steamer De Soto. Meanwhile the people were greatly
exasperated at the conduct of the British Commander. Even women came out
of houses with knives and vowed vengeance on the English crew if they
attempted to land. They broke open the British Consulate and took
therefrom seven or eight refugees belonging to the Geffrard party, who
were concealed there for protection and held them as hostages.

The Bull Dog went in on the following morning accompanied by three of
Geffrard's steamers. She opened fire on Fort Piccolet pouring in two
heavy broadsides. The men were scattered over the ramparts, but soon
manned their pieces and replied with three or four guns.

The Bull Dog steamed ahead and fired up on the town with shell and
grape, and started to run down the Valdrogue, but got aground as already
stated. She continued to pour broadsides into the open town.

Lt. Commander Howell, of the De Soto, was on shore on duty with a boat's
crew, and miraculously escaped with their lives. Capt. Walker, of the De
Soto, sent a boat aboard the Bull Dog to know why her commander was
bombarding the town without notifying him as he promised, and without
informing Foreign Consuls. Meanwhile Capt. Walker sent his boats under
Howell, through a heavy fire of the Bull Dog and Haytian batteries, to
bring off all foreigners who wished protection under the American flag.

The Prussian, Belgian, French, Hamburg and other Consuls, and fifty
other persons of all nations, were conveyed to the De Soto, which
steamed with them out of danger.

The Bull Dog's fire sunk the Valdrogue and one of the Haytian schooners,
whose crews were mostly ashore.

Commander Wake replied to Captain Walker's message that he appealed to
American generosity, and hoped Captain Walker would not take advantage
of his unfortunate position.

The Bull Dog kept up a constant firing on the town all day, and late in
the P. M. begged Captain Walker to take the hawser from him and tow him
off, promising to stop firing and leave the harbor, otherwise he would
be compelled to blow up the ship.

Walker declined to give any assistance, except to take the wounded
aboard, which was done.

The Bull Dog continued firing until sundown. During the engagement she
had 1 officer and 2 men killed, and 15 wounded. At half past ten she was
blown up.

SPECIAL DISPATCHES

More of the Bull Dog

Additional particulars of the war in Hayti says there are now but two
steamers composing the blockading squadron off Cape Haytien, and the
chances for blockade running are favorable.

The crew of the British steamer Bull Dog, after the destruction of the
vessel, reached one of the Geffrard steamers in safety.

The American Consul said that the commander of the Bull Dog expected the
U. S. Steamer De Soto would open fire upon him, for having violated his
promise not to fire upon the town, without giving proper notice. It was
thought this fear led him to blow up his vessel and leave the harbor in
the night.

After the Valdrogue sunk, her officers and crew clung to the rigging
when rifelment from the Bull Dog attempted to pick them off. They were
saved by boats from the De Soto.
